nfscat(8) -- read a file over NFS and print to stdout
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfscat` [`-hTv`] [`-b` <blocksize>] [`-c` <count>] [`-H` <hertz>] [`-S` <source>]

## DESCRIPTION

`nfscat` sends NFS version 3 READ RPC requests to an NFS server and prints the file contents in the responses to `stdout`. It starts at the beginning of the file and will read it until the end unless a number of requests is specified with the `-c` option.

The filehandles to be read are passed on `stdin` as a series of JSON objects (one per line) with the keys "host", "ip", "path", and "filehandle", where the value of the "filehandle" key is the hex representation of the file's NFS filehandle.

If the NFS server requires "secure" ports (<1024), `nfscat` will have to be run as root.

## OPTIONS

* `-b`:
  Set the blocksize for requests in bytes. Default is 8192.

* `-c`:
  Count of requests to send for each file before exiting. Instead of printing the file contents to `stdout`, print a summary line for each request with the response time.

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-H` <hertz>:
  The polling frequency in Hertz. This is the number of requests sent to each target per second. Default = 1.

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## EXAMPLES

Here is a pipeline of commands which demonstrates using `nfsmount` to obtain the root filehandle, then using `nfsls` to find the filehandle for `/etc/hosts` and finally `nfscat` to print the contents:

  `sudo sh -c "nfsmount dumpy:/ | nfsls | grep etc | nfsls | grep hosts | nfscat"`

## RETURN VALUES

`nfscat` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  

## SEE ALSO

nfsmount(8), nfsls(8)
