nfsdf(8) -- report NFS server disk space usage
==============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfsdf` [`-AbgGhiklmMntTv`] [`-c` <count>] [`-H` <hertz>] [`-p` <prefix>] [`-S` <source>]

## DESCRIPTION

`nfsdf` accepts NFS filehandles on `stdin` and sends NFS version 3 FSSTAT RPC requests to each NFS server and reports the total, used and available amounts of disk space and files (inodes) for the filesystems specified, as well as the response time for each RPC request in milliseconds. `nfsdf` waits until the end of input (EOF) before sending any requests so that the correct width header can be printed. The default output is human readable, similar to `df -h`, units can be specified with the `-b`, `-k`, `-m`, `-g`, or `-t` options. Any filehandle on the target filesystem can be used as an argument, including the root filehandle obtained from `nfsmount`.

Input filehandles are represented as a series of JSON objects (one per line) with the keys "host", "ip", "path", and "filehandle", where the value of the "filehandle" key is the hex representation of the file's NFS filehandle.

If the NFS server requires "secure" ports (<1024), `nfsdf` will have to be run as root.

## OPTIONS

* `-A`:
  Display IP addresses (instead of hostnames).

* `-b`:
  Report disk space in bytes.

* `-c` <count>:
  Count of FSSTAT requests to send to each input filehandle before exiting.

* `-g`:
  Report disk space in gigabytes.

* `-G`:
  Graphite format output. Default is human readable (`-h`).

* `-h`:
  Report disk space in human readable format (default). This selects whichever unit is the most compact to display in 4 digits of precision.

* `-H` <hertz>:
  The polling frequency in Hertz when in looping (`-l`) or counting (`-c`) mode. This is the number of requests sent to each target filesystem per second. Default = 1.

* `-i`:
  Report inodes (files) instead of disk space. Displays the total number of inodes on the filesystem, the amounts used and free, the capacity as a percentage and the time in milliseconds that each FSSTAT RPC call took.

* `-k`:
  Report disk space in kilobytes.

* `-l`:
  Loop forever. Exit loop with Ctrl-c.

* `-m`:
  Report disk space in megabytes.

* `-M`:
  Query the RPC portmapper on the server to lookup the NFS port. Otherwise connect directly to the standard port (2049). Uses UDP by default or TCP if the `-T` option is specified.

* `-n`:
  Only print the header once. Otherwise, the header is repeated once per screen of output. No header is printed in Graphite (`-G`) mode.

* `-p` <prefix>:
  Specify string prefix for Graphite metric names. Default = "nfs".

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-t`:
  Report disk space in terabytes.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to servers. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## EXAMPLES

Typically `nfsdf` will use a filehandle obtained from the output of the `nfsmount` command:

  `sudo sh -c "nfsmount dumpy | nfsdf"`

Since both commands typically need root privileges (to bind to a "secure" port) they can be run with a single subshell under `sudo`.

If the check is being run repeatedly, there is no need to query the fileserver with `nfsmount` every time. Since the root filehandles shouldn't change, the output can be stored in a file:

  `sudo nfsmount dumpy > dumpy.nfs`  
  `sudo nfsdf < dumpy.nfs`  

## RETURN VALUES

`nfsdf` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  
