nfslock(8) -- test getting an NFS lock on a filehandle
======================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfslock` [`-hlTv`] [`-H` <hertz>]

## DESCRIPTION

`nfslock` sends an NLM version 4 NLM_TEST RPC request to an NFS server for each filehandle passed to it on `stdin`. NLM version 4 is used by NFS version 3 clients. The program outputs whether the request was "granted" or "failed" to `stderr` and prints the response time in Graphite format to `stdout`.

`nfslock` does not actually take out file locks on the server, it only tests whether a lock call for a specific filehandle would succeed.

Input filehandles are specified as JSON objects (one per line) with the keys "host", "ip", "path", and "filehandle", where the value of the "filehandle" key is the hex representation of the target file's NFS filehandle.

If the NLM server requires "secure" ports (<1024), `nfslock` will have to be run as root. (On Linux this is controlled by the `insecure_locks` option in exports(5)).

## OPTIONS

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-H` <hertz>:
  The polling frequency in Hertz. This is the number of requests sent to each target per second. Default = 1.

* `-l`:
  Loop forever. Exit with Ctrl-c.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## EXAMPLES

`nfsls` uses filehandles returned by `nfsmount` and `nfsls`, possibly along with other filters like `grep` or `jq`:

  `sudo sh -c "nfsmount dumpy | nfsls | grep testfile | nfslock"`

Since these commands typically need root privileges (to bind to a "secure" port) they can be run with a single subshell under `sudo`.

If the check is being run repeatedly, there is no need to query the fileserver to look up filehandles every time. Since the filehandles shouldn't change, the output can be stored in a file:

    `sudo sh -c "nfsmount dumpy | nfsls | grep testfile" > testfile.nfs`  
    `sudo nfslock < testfile.nfs`  

## RETURN VALUES

`nfslock` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure and correspond to the NLM error in nlm4_stats. `10` is a name resolution or RPC failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## REFERENCES

http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9629799/NLM_TEST.htm  
http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9629799/chap14.htm  

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  

## SEE ALSO

nfsmount(8), nfsls(8)
