nfsmount(8) -- lookup NFS filesystem root filehandles
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfsmount` [`-AdDeEGhJlmqRTv`] [`-c` <count>] [`-C` <count>] [`-H` <hertz>] [`-S` <source>] [`-V` <version>] <server[:path]...>

## DESCRIPTION

`nfsmount` sends MOUNT protocol version 3 RPC requests to NFS servers to look up exported filesystems and their root filehandles. Specific filesystems can be queried with an argument in the format `hostname:path`. If the path is omitted then a separate `EXPORT` RPC request is first sent to list all available filesystems which will then be looked up individually with `MNT` RPC requests. In looping (`-l`) and counting (`-c`, `-C`) modes, a single EXPORT request is sent before starting the main loop of MNT requests.

While typically the MOUNT protocol is used to list the root filehandles for exported filesystems, it can also obtain filehandles for directories and files within an exported filesystem. (This behaviour can be disabled on some NFS servers, for example on Solaris with the `nosub` option. On *BSD it must be enabled with the `alldirs` option.)

The result(s) are returned as a series of JSON objects (one per line) with the keys "host", "ip", "path", "usec", "timestamp", "filehandle" and "version", where the value of the "filehandle" key is the hex representation of the filesystem's root NFS filehandle.

If the NFS server requires "secure" ports (<1024) for the mount daemon, `nfsmount` must be run as root.

## OPTIONS

* `-A`:
  Display IP addresses instead of hostnames. Also implied by `-m`.

* `-c` <count>:
  Count of (MNT) requests to send to each target's exported filesystems before exiting. For example, if a target has 4 filesystems exported, with a count 5, 20 requests will be sent (5 to each filesystem). Print a line of `ping`-style output after each response is received. A summary of all responses is printed when the count is reached or the program is interrupted.

* `-C` <count>:
  Count of mount (MNT) requests to send to each target's exported filesystems. Outputs an `fping(8)` compatible parseable summary of the response times (in milliseconds) of all requests when the count is reached or the program is interrupted. Errors or lost responses are represented with `-`.

* `-d`:
  Perform reverse DNS lookups for target(s). This option overrides `-A` (and the implied `-A` from the `-m` option).

* `-D`:
  Print timestamp (Unix time) before each line of output when counting or looping.

* `-e`:
  Display available filesystems and their export policies in a human readable format, like `showmount -e`. This sends a single `EXPORT` RPC per target server and does not look up filehandles.

* `-E`:
  Display output in Etsy's StatsD format (nfsmount.$hostname.$path.mountv3:<msec>|ms).

* `-G`:
  Print output in Graphite format (nfsmount.$hostname.$path.mountv3.usec <usec> <timestamp>).

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-H` <hertz>:
  The polling frequency in Hertz. This is the number of requests sent to each target per second in looping and counting modes. Default = 1.

* `-J`:
  Force JSON output, even in counting and looping modes.

* `-l`:
  Loop forever sending mount (MNT) requests. Exit loop with Ctrl-c.  A summary of all responses is printed when the program is interrupted.

* `-m`:
  Use multiple target IP addresses if found. This can be useful for clustered file servers. Implies `-A` (shows IP addresses instead of hostnames) so output isn't ambiguous.

* `-q`:
  Quiet. Only print a summary.

* `-R`:
  Don't reconnect to target servers after each loop. The default behaviour is to disconnect and reconnect after all of the exported filesystems on each target are queried.

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

* `-V` <version>:
  Use MOUNT protocol `version`. Default = 3, supports versions 1/2/3. MOUNT version 3 is used by NFS version 3, version 1 is used by NFS version 2. Version 2 can also be used with NFS version 2 but this is less common. Versions 1 and 2 will return 32 byte filehandles, version 3 returns variable length filehandles up to 64 bytes.

## EXAMPLES

Query a server for all available exports:

  `sudo nfsmount dumpy`

Query a server for a specific export:

  `sudo nfsmount dumpy:/export`

Query a server for a specific file:

  `sudo nfsmount dumpy:/export/home/mnt`

Produce `ping`-style output:

  `sudo nfsmount dumpy -l`

## OUTPUT

By default, `nfsmount` outputs a list of NFS root filehandles exported on the target server(s) as JSON objects, one per line:

{"host":"localhost","ip":"127.0.0.1","path":"\/export","usec":206,"timestamp":1459804688,"filehandle":"0100010000000000","version":3}

Slashes (`/`) in the "path" field are automatically escaped. The "version" field represents the version of the MOUNT protocol (specified with the `-V` option). Version 3 is used with NFS version 3, versions 1 and 2 are used with NFS version 2. "usec" is the number of microseconds that the RPC call took. "timestamp" is the Epoch time that the call was made.

When the `-G` option is specified, `nfsmount` will produce Graphite-compatible output:

nfsmount.localhost./.mountv3.usec 256 1459805225

When the `-E` option is specified, `nfsmount` will produce StatsD-compatible output:

nfsmount.localhost./.mountv3:0.20|ms

## RETURN VALUES

`nfsmount` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).


## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  
