nfsdf(8) -- report NFS server disk space usage
==============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfsdf` [`-ghiklmotTv`] [`-p` <prefix>] [`-S` <source>] <filehandle...>

## DESCRIPTION

`nfsdf` sends an NFS version 3 FSSTAT RPC request to an NFS server and reports the amount of disk space or inodes used on the filesystem specified in the filehandle argument(s).

## OPTIONS

* `-g`:
  Report disk space in gigabytes.

* `-h`:
  Report disk space in human readable format (default). This is whichever format is the most compact to display.

* `-i`:
  Report inodes (files) instead of disk space.

* `-k`:
  Report disk space in kilobytes.

* `-l`:
  Loop forever. Exit loop with Ctrl-c.

* `-m`:
  Report disk space in megabytes.

* `-o` <format>:
  Specify output format for input to another program. Currently supported is [`G`]raphite. Default is human readable (`-h`).

* `-p` <prefix>:
  Specify string prefix for Graphite metric names. Default = "nfs".

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## RETURN VALUES

`nfsdf` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  
