nfscat(8) -- read a file over NFS and print to stdout
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfscat` [`-hTv`] [`-b` <blocksize>] [`-c` <count>] [`-S` <source>] <filehandle...>

## DESCRIPTION

`nfscat` sends NFS version 3 READ RPC requests to an NFS server and prints the file contents in the responses to `stdout`. It starts at the beginning of the file and will read it until the end unless a number of requests is specified with the `-c` option. Filehandles can either be specified as arguments or accepted on `stdin`.

Filehandles are specified in the format hostname:path:filehandle, where the filehandle is the hex representation of the NFS filehandle.

If the NFS server requires "secure" ports (<1024), `nfscat` will have to be run as root.

## OPTIONS

* `-b`:
  Set the blocksize for requests in bytes. Default is 8192.

* `-c`:
  Count of requests to send for each file before exiting. Instead of printing the file contents to `stdout`, print a summary line for each request with the response time.

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## RETURN VALUES

`nfscat` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  

## SEE ALSO

nfsmount(8), nfsls(8)
