nfslock(8) -- test getting an NFS lock on a filehandle
======================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfslock` [`-hlTv`] <filehandle...>

## DESCRIPTION

`nfslock` sends an NLM version 4 NLM_TEST RPC request to an NFS server for each filehandle argument. Filehandles can either be specified as arguments or accepted on `stdin`. It outputs whether the request was "granted" or "failed" to `stderr` and prints the response time in Graphite format to `stdout`.

Note that this `nfslock` does not actually take out a lock on the server, it only tests whether a lock call would succeed.

Filehandles are specified in the format hostname:path:filehandle, where the filehandle is the hex representation of the NFS filehandle.

If the NLM server requires "secure" ports (<1024), `nfslock` will have to be run as root. (On Linux this is controlled by the `insecure_locks` option in exports(5)).

## OPTIONS

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-l`:
  Loop forever. Send requests every second.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## RETURN VALUES

`nfslock` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure and correspond to the NLM error in nlm4_stats. `10` is a name resolution or RPC failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## REFERENCES

http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9629799/NLM_TEST.htm  
http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9629799/chap14.htm  

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  

## SEE ALSO

nfsmount(8), nfsls(8)
