nfsmount(8) -- lookup NFS filesystem root filehandles
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfsmount` [`-ehmTv`] [`-S` <source>] <server[:path]...>

## DESCRIPTION

`nfsmount` sends a MOUNT protocol version 3 RPC request to an NFS server to look up exported filesystems and their root filehandles. Specific filesystems can be queried with an argument in the format `hostname:path`. If the path is absent then a separate request will be sent to list all available filesystems which will then be looked up individually. The root filehandle is returned in the format `hostname:path:filehandle`, where the filehandle is the hex representation of the filesystem's root NFS filehandle. If the NFS server requires "secure" ports (<1024), `nfsmount` will have to be run as root.

## OPTIONS

* `-e`:
  Display available filesystems and their export policies in a human readable format, like `showmount -e`. This does not look up filehandles.

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-m`:
  Use multiple target IP addresses if found. This can be useful for clustered file servers.

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

## RETURN VALUES

`nfsmount` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received successful responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  
