nfsping(8) -- send RPC NULL requests to NFS servers
===================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nfsping` [`-aAdDEGhlLmMnNqQRsTv`] [`-c` <count>] [`-C` <count>] [`-g` <prefix>] [`-i` <interval>] [`-p` <pause>] [`-P` <port>] [`-S` <source>] [`-t` <timeout>] [`-V` <version>] <servers...>

## DESCRIPTION

`nfsping` sends RPC NULL requests to an NFS server to determine if it is responding and to measure the response time. It supports the network file system (NFS), mount, portmap (rpcbind), network lock manager (NLM), NFS ACL, network status monitor (NSM) and rquota protocols. The default protocol is NFS version 3 over UDP port 2049. Without any options it will send a single NFS version 3 NULL request over UDP to the specified server and report whether it is alive or dead based on whether it receives a response or not.

## OPTIONS

* `-a`:
  Send NFS ACL protocol NULL requests. Uses UDP port 2049 by default, use the portmapper with `-M`.

* `-A`:
  Display IP addresses (instead of hostnames).

* `-c` <count>:
  Count of ping requests to send to target(s) before exiting. Print a line of output after each response is received (unless the `-q` option is specified). A summary of all responses is printed when the count is reached or the program is interrupted.

* `-C` <count>:
  Count of ping requests to send to target(s), outputs `fping(8)` compatible parseable summary when the count is reached or the program is interrupted.

* `-d`:
  Perform reverse DNS lookups for target(s).

* `-D`:
  Print timestamp (Unix time) before each line of output.

* `-E`:
  Print output in StatsD format ($prefix.$hostname.$protocol:<ms>|ms). Use `-g` to change the prefix from the default "nfsping".

* `-g` <prefix>:
  Specify string prefix for Graphite or StatsD metric names. Default = "nfsping".

* `-G`:
  Print output in Graphite format ($prefix.$hostname.$protocol.usec <usec> <timestamp>). Use `-g` to change the prefix from the default "nfsping".

* `-h`:
  Display a help message and exit.

* `-i` <interval>:
  The interval (delay) between sending packets, in milliseconds. Default = 25.

* `-l`:
  Loop forever. Like traditional ICMP `ping(8)`. Exit loop with Ctrl-c.

* `-L`:
  Send network lock manager (NLM) protocol NULL requests. Implies `-M`.

* `-m`:
  Use multiple target IP addresses if found. For servers with multiple DNS A records (round-robin).

* `-M`:
  Use the RPC portmapper to discover the listening port for the protocol on the server. Default no for NFS and NFS ACL, yes for mount, NLM and NSM. Uses UDP by default or TCP if the `-T` option is specified.

* `-n`:
  Send mount protocol NULL requests. Implies `-M`.

* `-N`:
  Send portmap protocol NULL requests.

* `-o` <format>:
  Specify output format for input to another program. Currently supported are [`G`]raphite and [`S`]tatsd.

* `-p` <pause>:
  The polling interval. `nfsping` will pause up to this amount of milliseconds between requests to each target. Default = 1000 (one second).

* `-P` <port>:
  The port on the server. Default = 2049 for NFS and NFS ACL, 111 for portmap. The portmapper on the server is queried for other protocols.

* `-q`:
  Quiet. Only print a summary.

* `-Q`:
  Send rquota protocol NULL requests. Implies `-M`.

* `-R`:
  By default nfsping disconnects and reconnects to each server for each ping. Disable this behaviour and maintain the connection(s).

* `-s`:
  Send network status monitor (NSM) protocol NULL requests. Imples `-M`.

* `-S` <source>:
  Use the specified source IP address for request packets.

* `-t` <timeout>:
  Timeout in milliseconds to wait for a RPC response from the server. Default = 1000.

* `-T`:
  Use TCP to connect to server. Default = UDP.

* `-v`:
  Display debug output on `stderr`.

* `-V` <version>:
  Use NFS protocol `version`. Default = 3 for NFS, supports versions 2/3/4. Other protocols use the version corresponding to the specified NFS version (except the portmapper which always uses version 2 of the portmap protocol). An error is returned for illegal or unsupported versions of the specified protocol.

## RETURN VALUES

`nfsping` will return `0` if all requests to all targets received responses. Nonzero exit codes indicate a failure. `1` is an RPC error, `2` is a name resolution failure, `3` is an initialisation failure (typically bad arguments).

## HISTORY

This program was inspired by `fping(8)` but doesn't share any code with it.

## AUTHOR

Matt Provost, mprovost@termcap.net

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 Matt Provost  
RPC files Copyright Sun Microsystems  
NFSv4 files Copyright IETF  
